Levels
Kellyjelly
Summary:
Sherlock never imagined that he would fall for someone like John Watson, a young sweet man who’s mute and was bullied for being mute, but hopefully Sherlock erases those hurtful memories and proves to John that he loves him dearly.

Notes:
Hey everyone! This is my very first johnlock fic and I hope it is satisfying to those who read it. I’m trying my best to keep Sherlock in character but every now and then he’ll be out of character and just act as a sweetheart. Enjoy it!

(See the end of the work for more notes.)

Chapter 1: Little Things
Chapter Text
The sun was making its way up in the sky, providing light to those who need it. To illuminate the roads and buildings that were frozen in place. Each bright ray that came from the sun, were hitting different places at the same time. The natural light that came from the sun invaded every home, letting every human being know that it was morning. Every person in London felt the sun, even John felt it. The sweet warmth on his face made him smile. He slowly opened his eyes and lifted his hands to rub the sleepiness out of his eyes. John rolled onto his back and silently sighed. Like every day, he would open his mouth to speak but he couldn’t. He tried to form any random words that he could say out loud but nothing came out. John raised his hand to his throat and deeply inhaled. He closed his eyes and he was taken back to his past.

John remembered when he was young, his parents considered him an “odd” child. His mum and dad would always treat him delicately because of his silent defect. As a baby, he never understood what his defect was until he reached an age where he began walking and understood the large vocabulary his parents threw his way. At the age of 10, his parents sat him down and explained how when he was born, he had a certain “defect” which involved his vocal cords being damaged. Since his vocal cords were damaged, he naturally couldn’t talk or form out any words. His parents told him the truth, John was mute. Due to John being young, he didn’t understand how this would affect him. As an immature young boy, he found it cool that he didn’t have to talk but once school required him to speak out loud, he finally comprehended why the ability of not speaking would affect him. A lot of kids would bully him, call him hurtful names, and made fun of him whenever they had a chance. Everyday, John would come home crying to his parents and tried to explain what happened, but his tears were the only words he could form. After some time, his parents hired a tutor to teach sign language to John. By the time he reached 18, he was fluent in sign language and for the first time he was able to talk to his parents and they would understand him. He and his parents would have full conversations and it lastly made John happy. His parents were the only ones who never humiliated him except his sister, Harry. She would always bug him and laugh at the fact that he couldn’t say anything. Thanks to his early experience of being bullied, he was used to harsh comments thrown his way or at least he was numb to them. His parents encouraged him to continue his dreams and never let his defect put him down. John continued his education and he got his degree in medicine and pursued the desire to be doctor. With his heart in his mouth, he went from hospital to hospital trying to get a job. Each hospital wouldn’t give him a job because he was mute. John tried his best to convince those who rejected him that he can flourish in a hospital environment but he was harshly waved away. He gave up trying to get a job as a doctor, then one day he decided to join the army. Again, he was rejected, the recruiter told him to hit the road and forget about joining the army. The recruiter made it clear that they didn’t want to take care of a baby who couldn’t even speak. John walked away, sad and worthless. He returned home and forced himself to find any job and move out of his parents’ house. It took a few try’s but he managed to get a job at a café. The owners were good people and they were the first ones to not discriminate against John and luckily, they knew sign language as well. They trained him and made it possible for John to run things smoothly without having problems with the customers.

At this point, he was stuck in this part of his life, living in a small room and working to earn money to survive. As John came back to his senses, he looked to his left and realized how empty the space was next to him. For years, he’s been alone and he wondered how it would be to have someone at his side and have that person accept him the way he is. His mind drifted to remember what day it was. It’s Friday, yep he works today. He looks to his right and sees the time. It’s 8:30 am, well he has an hour and a half to get ready and go to work.



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



Sherlock was in his flat, sitting in his armchair with his eyes closed and his hands under his chin forming a pyramid, his usual thinking stance. He heard Mrs. Hudson roaming away downstairs and making tea, as always. His mind was racing around with one prominent word, Bored. Sherlock hasn’t had a case in weeks, well to be accurate, months. He’s been home everyday waiting for Lestrade to text him about a new case or show up at his flat to deliver any kind of news but nothing came. Sherlock was about to get up and play his violin when he heard the downstairs door open and the sound of footsteps rushing upstairs. Yes. Sherlock mentally smiled and remained unmoved as he heard his door open, “Hello Lestrade. You have a case for me.”
“None has come up.”
Sherlock opened his eyes and lifted himself off his chair and grabbed his silver revolver and started to shoot bullets towards his wall in front of him. Lestrade started to laugh at Sherlock’s reaction.
“Is it really possible that every person who commits crimes has vanished? I need a case Lestrade. Find me a case.” Sherlock annoyingly remarked.
“Sorry mate but none are appearing.”
“Then why are you here? Your useless information is of no use to me. A simple text would have been enough.” Sherlock went to sit down in his chair again.
“Eh, I wanted to come in person and see your reaction. Besides we can go out a bit and keep you away from this flat.” Lestrade suggested.
Sherlock directed his gaze to Lestrade. “I have no desire to leave thank you.”
“Come on Sherlock. Let’s get food cause I’m starving.”
Sherlock ruffled his curls, “Um noooo… and digesting slows me down.”
“You don’t have to eat. I’ll order something and I’ll eat in front of you.” Lestrade chuckled.
“Sounds very boring.”
Mrs. Hudson was making her way upstairs and entered Sherlock’s room, “Oh hello Greg. Sherlock when will you leave this flat and do something for once in your life.”
Sherlock eyed Mrs. Hudson. “Mrs. Hudson, isn’t there a tray of biscuits in the oven that require more attention than me.”
Lestrade gave up on trying to convince Sherlock to go out. “Well, I’ll leave you two to bicker about tea and biscuits.”
Sherlock’s eyes followed Lestrade. “Lestrade, I may need a bit of fresh air.” Sherlock got up and went inside his bedroom to quickly change.



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



With his long coat and navy-blue scarf, Sherlock hurriedly went down the stairs and stood outside waiting for Lestrade to follow him. “Where too?”
Lestrade looked around, “Let’s go to Speedy’s. It’s just right here.”
Sherlock stared at Lestrade, “You made me walk outside just to enter Speedy’s.”
Lestrade began laughing. “Of course, I’m getting a sandwich. Join along if you want.”
Sherlock placed his hands behind his back and lazily followed Lestrade inside. He stood next to Lestrade and assessed the menu. “The distraction of our bodies yearning for food is quite baffling. Very dull and boring.”
“Unlike you Sherlock, normal people like me enjoy food and having a full stomach.”
Sherlock rolled his eyes and looked around the empty café. Lestrade decided to go with the BLT sandwich and approached the counter. He noticed a smaller man who perceived Lestrade’s presence and politely signaled Lestrade that he’ll be right up. Lestrade smiled and patiently waited to be served. “Sherlock.”
“Hm.” The detective looked at Lestrade.
Lestrade whispered, “He’s new, isn’t he?”
Sherlock directed his ocean blue eyes towards the smaller man who had fair skin with a light tan and short brown hair with slight streaks of grey hair. “He recently began working here, eight months ago. This is his primary job, comes in about 4-5 days a week. Always has morning shifts and rarely has any night shifts. Doesn’t live far from here, probably three blocks away. He lives alone and has no pets-“
Lestrade interrupted Sherlock, “For god sakes Sherlock. You didn’t have to give me his whole life story. Give the man some dignity or some mystery to those who don’t read people in one look.”
Sherlock smirked, “It keeps me functioning. Also, to show that my deducing skills haven’t left at all.”
“Well deduce in your brain and stop being a show off.”
“With pleasure.” Sherlock locked his gaze onto the smaller man approaching him and Lestrade, and continued his deductions.
The nice-looking man approaches them and offers a warm smile.
“Hello- “Lestrade looks down at the man’s name tag. “John.” John smiles again.
“Can I have the BLT sandwich and a coffee.”
John writes down the customer’s order and signals with his hand if the man wanted to eat here.
Lestrade looks at Sherlock at shakes his head, “No, I’ll take it go. Thank you.”
John nods and smiles.
Sherlock was a bit confused as to why this ‘John’ didn’t speak a word. “Why didn’t you ask him whether he wanted to eat here or take it to go instead of signaling?”
John froze and wasn’t sure how to answer.
“Sherlock. No need to ask, it’s none of your business.” Lestrade pulled his arm.
Sherlock searched John’s entire face and body to figure out this small detail that was absolutely bugging him. “I mean every human being is capable of speaking. It is a natural skill we all possess, so why refrain from speaking, John?”
John wanted to speak, to tell this man to piss off but he couldn’t therefore he felt vulnerable and powerless.
Lestrade raised his voice, “Sherlock, why are you getting worked up about this?”
Sherlock glanced at Lestrade, “Remember, I’m bored and I haven’t had a case in months, so I will bother this man until my question is answered. Judging from the time your order went through the kitchen in the back, that would put us at waiting for twenty minutes. So, that would’ve meant that we were going to stand around doing nothing while you would try to have a small chit chat with me. So, to prevent any dull human interactions with you, Lestrade, I find myself pressuring this man to answer a simple question. Which by the way, this is pretty fun. Now back to you.” He pointed at John. “You’re a healthy man in your late 20s heading into your 30s and you’re struggling to acquire enough money to keep your small flat. You were struggling to find a job when you left your parents’ house. Yet, you have a degree in medicine, from the told of your hands, someone lets you practice in their private lab to console your failed accomplishment which you moronically couldn’t accomplish. A bit of a step down, for someone who went through all that trouble to get a degree and end up working at Speedy’s. So, you have endured a common problem that most people must have gone through in their lives. And funny enough, all this information about you still doesn’t answer the fact as to why you didn’t speak.”
John was humiliated and shocked. Who does this man think he is? Telling John’s life story without skipping a beat. Yet, what stung John the most, was to listen to this man mentioning his failures and how pathetic he was for working at a café.
Lestrade slapped Sherlock’s shoulder. “Sherlock, shut up!”
Sherlock leaned closer to the smaller man, “Shall I continue my deductions about you or will you just tell us why you didn’t speak.”
John hated this man in front of him. He wanted to stand his ground but what was the point. John looked at the two men in front of him and bit the inside of his cheek. He signed, “I’m mute.”
Sherlock studied the signals John did with his hand, he didn’t catch the words that were being said but he had a clear idea of what this man signaled. He felt like a complete dickhead and stood shocked in place. Lestrade faced Sherlock and he immediately wanted to punch the detective in the face.
“What the hell is happening? Are you the one bugging John?” The owner of Speedy’s appeared and pointed at Sherlock.
“I’m sorry he didn’t mean- “Lestrade was cut off.
The older man placed himself in front of John, shielding him from the tall idiot. “He didn’t mean to what? Humiliate my worker and make fun of the fact that he’s mute. John can very much hear you, he has feelings too and just because he’s different, it doesn’t give you the right to find his weakness and hurt him. You know it’s people like you who are worthless pricks.”
Sherlock didn’t respond to the owner, instead his blue eyes searched for John’s gaze and tried to find the right word to express his regret and forgiveness, but he remained silent.
“Get out! Both of you!” The older man shouted.
Lestrade complied with the man’s orders and left the café without his food. The detective didn’t move from his spot and continued staring at John.
“Get out you freak!” The owner shouted again.
Sherlock composed himself and stood up straighter and left. He accompanied a distressed Lestrade outside and stayed quiet.
“What the hell is wrong with you?” Lestrade abruptly asked.
The detective looked back inside the café and kept his gaze on John and ignored Lestrade’s question.
Lestrade became annoyed and placed himself in front of Sherlock’s face. “Sherlock, what the hell was that?”
Sherlock stepped away from Lestrade, “I imagined this situation going another way. I would have expected him to shout and become incredibly angry which would have led to him trying to pick a fight with me. I would’ve accepted his attempt to fight me due to the fact that I haven’t had someone try to inflict violence upon me for a while. It would have been a pleasure to feel that long lost adrenaline pumping through my veins but I made a huge mistake.”
Lestrade shakes his head disapprovingly and laughs, “I need to find you a case so I can prevent you from insulting and humiliating people.”
Sherlock nodded in agreement and the two men walked a few steps back to Sherlock’s flat. Lestrade left Sherlock at the front door and he was about to walk away when Lestrade felt a light hand tapping his shoulder. He turned around and was faced with John, “Oh… John.”
Sherlock quickly turned around and observed John.
John lifted a bag containing Lestrade’s order. “You forgot your order.” John signed.
Lestrade wasn’t quite sure what John was saying but he got the general idea. “Thank you. You didn’t have too, due to what happened back there.”
John smiled sadly and signed, “It’s okay.” He turned around to head back to work and his eyes met Sherlock’s. John stood still and pressed his lips together and calmly made his way back to the café.
Sherlock’s eyes followed John and his lips parted to word a few lines of regret but again, nothing came out. Lestrade made eye contact with Sherlock and the detective went inside his flat, and slammed the door behind him.
Mrs. Hudson jumped at the sudden noise. “You’re back early. Why so quickly?”
Sherlock slowly went upstairs, “Don’t disturb me Mrs. Hudson, thank you.” He disappeared upstairs into his flat and he removed his coat. He looked at his hands and walked towards his window and replayed the whole forced conversation he had with John. Sherlock placed his hands behind his back and wondered why he felt a heavy guilt rising in his chest. Usually in these situations, he would apologize swiftly and forget about the incident, but this was different. He felt horrible, there was a longing pain that keeps appearing in his heart. This was the first time that he felt… sentiment for something or specifically a person. Sherlock was conflicted with the array of emotions crossing his brain so, instead he removed his suit, and picked up his violin from his chair and played a soft slow tune.